Ye have indeed in the Apostle of God a beautiful pattern (of conduct) for any one whose hope is in God and the Final Day, and who engages much in the Praise of God.
This holy verse is a great source for following the prophet (PBUH)
you can notice that the word pattern (of conduct) is indifinite and not followed by a clarification for what we are going to follow the prophet in.
So, in this way, it is really broad to include everything the prophet does and says in every situation.
As in his Jihad,patience and bearing dificulties. As well as in his meekness, tenderness and dealing with wives.
In order to be able to follow the prophet as a pattern (of conduct), his entire biography should be well known in details.
That was exactly what the glorious companion and mothers of believers guarantee and the writers of the holy biography. So, we have to know all the details about the prophet's.
All prophet's deeds prove that all Islamic law missions are achieveable and applicable not just something not applicable or too Ideal to achieve.
Our Mother Aisha was felicitous when she said that the prophet's manners were Quran.
So, that proves that his prophecy is true and that his message is perfect.
you can never follow some one completely; so, no matter how great they are, still you can take things and leave things.
We can follow them at one thing and not to do in another thing, except the prophet, One's Islam isn't appropriate unless he follows the prophet and applies Sunnah.
Also, the Muslim can't get Allah's blessings except by following the prophet.
Say: "If ye do love God, Follow me: God will love you and forgive you your sins: For God is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
Glorious companion God bless them all- understood that. So, they followed the prophet in every thing.
Here, Omar Ibnul Khattab says: " I know you are just a stone, neither harmful nor useful,
but I am just kissing you because I've seen the Prophet doing, if he didn't do it, I would have never done it"